WE BEGIN WITH TEAM COVERAGE.
ERIN BURNETT IN TEL AVIV STARTS
IT OFF.
THAT IS QUITE A CLAIM BY
PRESIDENT HERZOG.
WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS?
>> OBVIOUSLY SIGNIFICANT.
LET'S GO THROUGH WHAT THEY SAY
THEY FOUND.
THEY SAY THEY FOUND A USB ON ONE
OF THE HAMAS MILITANTS INVOLVED
IN THE ATTACKS, AND ON THAT USB
THERE WAS INFORMATION FROM WHAT
HAD BEEN AN AL QAEDA 2003
OPERATIONAL MANUAL WHICH
INCLUDED A PAGE OF INSTRUCTIONS
ON HOW TO ASSEMBLE A CYANIDE
CHEMICAL WEAPON AND HOW TO
DISPERSE IT WITH CRUDE DRAWINGS.
THAT IS WHAT THEY ARE SAYING.
THEY ARE HOWEVER CLEAR THAT
THERE WAS NO INDICATIONS AT
LEAST WE'VE RECEIVED NO
INDICATIONS FROM THE ISRAELI
GOVERNMENT THAT THERE WERE ANY
PLANS TO DEPLOY SUCH A WEAPON.
JUST THAT IT WAS ON THAT USB.
BUT WE DO KNOW THAT THERE WERE
BATTLE PLANS FOUND ON OPERATIVE
AS WELL, WE'VE SEEN THOSE
OURSELVES THAT GO THROUGH EACH
OF THE KIBBUTZIM THAT WERE
ATTACKED, STREET BY STREET, AN
INCREDIBLE AMOUNT OF DETAILED
INFORMATION.
AND ON THOSE PLANS WE DO KNOW
TALKING TO SECURITY AT AT LEAST
ONE KIBBUTZ THAT THEY FOLLOWED
THOSE TO THE "T" AND WENT ITEM
BY ITEM.
SO WE CAN'T MISS THE
SIGNIFICANCE, BUT THERE IS NO
INDICATION AS OF YET THAT THERE
WAS ANY PLAN TO USE ANY SUCH
WEAPON.
>> THE BARRAGE OF AIRSTRIKES
OVERNIGHT, 320 TARGETS IS WHAT
THE IDF IS SAYING, WHAT ARE YOU
SEEING AND HEARING THIS MORNING?
>> SO 320 AIRSTRIKES, THEY GIVE
OUT NUMBERS MOST DAYS.
SO RUNNING AT A 500 STRIKE OVER
48 HOUR PERIOD.
THAT GIVES YOU A SENSE OF WHAT
IS HAPPENING IN GAZA.
THE PALESTINIAN HEALTH AUTHORITY
THERE IS SAYING THAT FOR EXAMPLE
NEAR RAFAH THAT THERE WERE FOUR
STRIKES THERE ON INDIVIDUAL
HOMES AND THAT 29 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED.
IMPOSSIBLE TO VERIFY.
BUT IT DOES SPEAK TO SOMETHING
BOTH SIDES ARE ACTUALLY AGREEING
ON, EVEN IF NOT EXPLICITLY,
WHICH IS THAT THE ISRAELI
STRIKES ARE EXTREMELY TARGETED.
SO TARGETING SPECIFIC HOMES
WHERE THEY BELIEVE THAT THERE
ARE LINKS TO HAMAS MILITANTS,
ALSO TALKING ABOUT ISLAMIC
JIHAD, THAT THEY ARE INCLUDING
PALESTINIAN ISLAMIC JIHAD
TARGETS AS LEGITIMATE TARGETS IN
ADDITION TO HAMAS MILITANTS
ITSELF.
WE'LL GET TO NIC IN A MOMENT TO
HEAR MORE, BUT THERE ARE DAYS
WHEN WE'VE HEARD THE ASSAULT,
YOU CAN HEAR ARTILLERY.
HERE WE DO HEAR OFTEN THE THUDS
OF THOSE BOMBS AND IT HAS BEEN
QUIET TODAY.
IT WAS QUIET YESTERDAY.
AT LEAST FROM WHERE WE'RE
STANDING AT THE BEGINNING TWO
WEEKS AGO GHOEN I WAS HERE.
IT WAS A CONSTANT THUD THAT YOU
COULD ACTUALLY PHYSICALLY FEEL
THROUGH YOUR BODY THROUGHOUT THE
DAY.
WE ARE NOT HEARING THAT.
SO THAT IS DIFFERENT.
AND THERE ARE THOSE THOUSANDS OF
TROOPS MASSED ALONG THE BORDER
WAITING FOR THE GREEN LIGHT TO
GO IN, ALL UP ALONG THE 25 MILE
LONG BORDER.
ISRAELI OFFICIALS HERE HAVE BEEN
WARNING FOR DAYS BUT THE
QUESTION ROMAINS WHEN EXACTLY IT
WILL HAPPEN.
AND WE DO UNDERSTAND THAT THE
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU WHO HAS BEEN PRESENTED
WITH MANY POSSIBLE OPERATIONS
THAT HE COULD GREEN LIGHT, THEY
COULD GO ON, SO WE'LL SEE
WHETHER THIS WAIT INDICATES A
SHIFT IN HIS DECISION MAKING ON
WHAT GOING IN ENTAILS.
NIC ROBERTSON AS PHIL SAID IS IN
ISRAEL.
WHAT HAVE YOU BEEN SEEING?
>> Reporter: OVERNIGHT LAST
NIGHT THE LATE EVENING HOURS
INTO THE EARLY MORNING HOURS,
REALLY HEAVY BOMBARDMENT SHAKING
THIS HOUSE, THE MOST SUSTAINED
AMOUNT OF MISSILES AND ARTILLERY
THAT WE'VE EXPERIENCED HERE.
AND WE'VE BEEN HERE FOR TWO
WEEKS.
TODAY AS YOU SAY MUCH QUIETER.
WE HEAR DRONES IN THE SKY, BUT
NO SOUNDS OF IMPACTS HERE IN
NORTHERN GAZA.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE'RE
HEARING AS WELL IS THE REASON
THAT THE GOVERNMENT HERE IS --
NETANYAHU'S GOVERNMENT IS SO
CONCERNED ABOUT HUMANITARIAN
PAUSES, THEY THINK THAT THAT
WILL BE USED BY HAMAS TO GAIN AN
ADVANTAGE, TO ALLEVIATE SOME OF
THE PRESSURE THAT THEY ARE
FACING AT THE MOMENT.
AND THIS PRESSURE DESIGNED TO
HELP MOVE ALONG HOSTAGE
RELEASES, TALKING TO SOME OF THE
TROOPS WHO ARE CLOSE TO THE
FRONT HERE, THEY TALK ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, BEING TOLD TO BE READY FOR
ACTION AND THEN ACTION NOT
COMING AND SORT OF STOOD
UP/STOOD DOWN.
BUT SPEAKING TO PAST VETERANS OF
WARS HERE, THEY SAY WE'VE BEEN
THROUGH THIS HERE BEFORE, WE CAN
STAY OUT AND DO THIS IN THE
FIELD AS LONG AS WE LIKE.
BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE TROOPS
AT THE FRONTLINES, THAT IS A
FORCE WAITING TO GO.
BRISTLING WITH BATTLE READY
TROOPS, FARMERS' FIELDS NORTH OF
GAZA CHURN WITH A CONTROLLED
FURY OF A NATION READYING FOR AN
INCURSION TO STRIKE HAMAS.
YET THEY ARE WAITING WITH NO
EXPLANATION WHY.
FEELS LIKE THE EARLY RUSH FOR
BATTLE READINESS HAS PASSED.
TROOPS  SS ARE DEPLOYED STANDIN.
THE QUESTION IS HOW LONG CAN
THEY BE KEPT OUT HERE.
ACCORDING TO FORMER IDF GENERAL,
AS LONG AS IS NEEDED.
THERE ARE MILITARY GAINS.
>> WE ARE NOW IMPROVING OUR
INTELLIGENCE AND OUR CAPACITY OF
TARGETS.
>> Reporter: BUT THE POLITICAL
CAL COULD YOU RACE HERE IS MORE
COMPLICATED.
>> I THINK BOTH IN WASHINGTON
AND IN JERUSALEM THEY UNDERSTAND
THAT THE LEGITIZATION WINDOW IS
CLOSING QUICKLY.
>> Reporter: CIVILIAN LOSSES IN
GAZA ARE GROWING.
MORE THAN A THIRD OF THEM
CHILDREN ACCORDING TO
PALESTINIAN HEALTH OFFICIALS.
LENGTHY NEGOTIATIONS HAVE LED TO
TWO AMERICAN HOSTAGES RELEASED.
A TINIMENT A OF HUMANITARIAN AID
HAS CROSSED INTO GAZA THAT
ISRAEL FEARS ENDS UP IN HAMAS'
HANDS.
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU CALCULUS OF WHEN TO
SEND IN GROUND TROOPS HAS NEVER
BEEN SO FRAUGHT UNDER PRESSURE
FROM THE WHITE HOUSE FOR MORE
HOSTAGE RELEASES.
>> NETANYAHU IS IN A REAL
PROBLEM.
HE CANNOT SAY NO TO BIDEN BUT HE
CANNOT SAY YES TO THE
HUMANITARIAN AID THAT DRIFTS
INTO NORTHERN GAZA.
>> Reporter: BUT HE IS ALSO
UNDER PRESSURE AT HOME TOO.
MILITARY AND OTHERS HAWKISH FOR
DECISIVE BLOW AGAINST HAMAS.
>> WE ARE FINISHING PREPARING,
YOU KNOW, THE GROUND FORCE
BECAUSE WE'VE CHANGED PLANS, WE
ARE GOING TO -- FOR HEAVY
MANEUVERING.
>> Reporter: NETANYAHU'S DILEMMA
COMPOUNDED BY HIS DEPENDENCE ON
AMERICAN WEAPONS.
>> THE PRESSURE FROM WASHINGTON
IS REAL.
IT IS REAL AS STRONG AND THE
PRIME MINISTER SAYS MANY TIMES
TO HIS MINISTERS, LISTEN, WE ARE
GETTING FROM THE UNITED STATES
MORE THAN YOU KNOW.
>> Reporter: WHERE LESS THAN A
WEEK AGO THESE FIELDS WERE
TEEMING WITH TANKS, TROOPS
MAKING LAST MINUTE REPAIRS,
TODAY JUST TRACKS IN THE SAND.
THERE IS A SOLDIER'S JACKET
HERE, BREAD AND BAG ON THE
TABLE.
THE QUESTION IS, WHERE HAVE ALL
THE TANKS GONE, FORWARD FOR
INCURSION OR BACK TO BASE FOR A
PAUSE.
CLOSE TO THE FRONT LINE IN GAZA
THESE DAYS, MORE QUESTIONS THAN
ANSWERS.
AN INCURSION STILL HIGHLY
PROBABLE BUT WHEN.
AND WHILE WE'VE BEEN STANDING
HERE THE LAST FEW MINUTES, WE'VE
HEARD SMALL ARMS FIRE, GUNFIRE
COMING FROM THIS DIRECTION OVER
HERE WHICH IS THE DIRECTION
TOWARDS THE BORDER.
WE CAN'T TELL WHAT IS ACTUALLY
HAPPENING THERE, BUT I THINK
THAT IT IS INDICATIVE OF THE
TENSIONS ALONG THE BORDER FENCE
AT THE MOMENT.
>> NIC, HERE IS THE THING PEP I
KNOW YOU ARE SAYING TROOPS CAN
TELLING YOU THAT THEY CAN
INDICATE INDEFINITELY AND YOU'D
EXPECT THEM TO AND ISAY THAT.
BUT THE REPORT THAT U.S. IS
PUTTING PRESSURE ON NETANYAHU TO
WAIT, IT MAKES SENSE, BUT HOW
LONG CAN NETANYAHU WAIT AND DOES
HE LOSE HIS POSITION OF STRENGTH
AND AUTHORITY BY APPEARING TO
CAVE TO U.S. INTERESTS ON THE
TIMING OF WHAT HE DOES?
>> Reporter: YOU KNOW, I THINK
PART OF THE CALCULUS FOR
NETANYAHU WILL BE WHAT DO HIS
ENEMIES IN THE REGION PERCEIVE.
IF THE UNITED STATES AND
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY IS ABLE
TO TELL ISRAEL NOT TO GO AFTER
HAMAS, FOR MANY ISRAELIS THAT
WILL ULTIMATELY LOOK LIKE A SIGN
OF WEAKNESS AND THE CALCULUS
WILL BE WHAT WILL HEZBOLLAH DO
KNOWING THAT, KNOWING THAT THEY
ARE POTENTIALLY ABOUT TO LAUNCH
ATTACKS ON ISRAEL AT SCALE IF
THE IDF GOES INTO GAZA.
SO I THINK THAT THAT ALL BECOMES
PART OF THE CALCULUS.
CALCULUS THAT ISRAELIS
THEMSELVES GENERALLY DON'T FEEL
SAFE AFTER THE BARBARIC ATTACKS
MORE THAN TWO WEEKS AGO.
I THINK THAT HE CAN HOLD BACK
FOR A WHILE, BUT EVERYONE IS
POISED AS AN EXPECTATION.
BUT THEN IT BECOME AS QUESTION
WHAT PRECISELY IS THE IN-DURING
GOING TO DO, HOW BIG WILL IT BE,
HOW MANY CIVILIANS WILL BE IN
THE WAY OF THAT INCURSION.
BUT WHEN IT COMES BACK TO HOW
LONG CAN THEY WAIT, ONE VETERAN
OF THE 1967 WAR, ARAB/ISRAELI
WAR SAID WE WERE HELD IN THE
DESERT FOR A MONTH AND WE
TRAINED, WE PRACTICED.
AND ACTUALLY THAT WORKED TO OUR
ADVANTAGE.
SO I THINK THAT THE PSYCHE HERE
IS NOT JUST SOLDIERS WILL TELL
YOU WHAT THEY THINK YOU WANT TO
HEAR AND WHAT THEIR COMMANDERS
WANT YOU TO HEAR.
I THINK THE PSYCHE IS WHAT IT
TAKES, WE'LL DO.